Title: Bread with wild yeast

Description: Bread made with wild raisin yeast. See down below for yeast recipe. 

Ingredients: 

Salt - 1 to 3 teaspoons - to your taste
Sugar - white and/or brown - 2 to 4 teaspoons
Soda - baking or bicarbonate - 1 to 2 teaspoons - optional
Flour - 4 to 8 cups - use a mix of flours as available and desired
Optional herbs or spices for flavour
Milk - 1 cup (or quarter cup milk powder)
Oil or butter - vegetable or olive - 1 to 2 tablespoons (4 to 10 teaspoons) - optional
Yeast starter - 2 to 4 cups - should be a yeast:flour ratio of 1:2 to 1:4
Water - warm but not boiling hot - in a container for pouring
Bowl for mixing
Bread tin or tray for baking in oven


Bread Method:

Feed the starter extra and ensure water is warm, leave until bubbles are not big but small.
Mix all flour, soda and salt into a bowl, sifting flour if lumpy. 
Mix well, adding herbs or spices.
Make a gap (a well) in the middle, add sugar, oil, measured yeast starter (be sure to leave some in feeding jar for next time, feed if needed).
Mix until doughy, only a little sticky, not runny.
Add in a little warm water and continue to mix, not letting it get too runny or too solid.
When no loose flour remains, put the mix into the greased tin (oil or butter the bottom and sides against sticking, optionally dust with flour)
Allow mix to rise in a warm non-dry place for 20 minutes to 8 hours, bake on low heat for 20-60 minutes to allow to further rise, turn up to 200-300 and cook for 15-25 minutes to kill the yeast and cook the mix. Beware of burning it.
Allow to cool for 20 to 60 minutes.



Title: Yeast Starter

Starter Ingredients: jar or container (sealable), 1 cup raisins, 3 to 5 cups warm water, 1 tablespoon sugar, later: wheat flour. Exact quantity depends on size of jar.

Starter Method:
(Takes 5-10 days)
Sterilise jar (wash in very hot water, optionally dry in hot oven).
Add all ingredients to jar.
Leave jar for 5-7 days until all raisins float to top - this produces alcohol. Other fruit, vegetables or grains can be used with different flavour and effects.
Remove the alcoholic raisins, they can be used for cooking if desired but are no longer sweet.
Add 2-4 teaspoons of wheat flour and mix. Add warm water if mixture is not runny. Other flour can be used but wheat seems to work well, if not highly milled/ground.
Feed every day or so (put in refrigerator if not often needed and feed every week or two).
With most feeds, reduce the mixture in the jar by a similar amount, especially if it smells sour.
It will get more sour over time. If extremely so, keep a teaspoon full of the mix, empty and clean the jar, put teaspoon full into warm water in jar and feed it.
A layer of alcoholic liquid on top may form if it uses up all food, air or heat.
