Homemade chocolate bread.

RECIPE

CHOCOLATE BREAD
Takes 60-90 minutes.

Yeast Ingredients:

Yeast (bakers) - 3 teaspoons
Sugar - 1 to 3 tsp
Warm water - 2-3 cups, about 30-40 degrees Celsius
Optional:
Honey - 1 to 2 tsp
Bicarbonate of soda - 1 tsp
Butter - 1/2 to 1 tbsp, unsalted.
Orange or lemon juice - a good squeeze, activates the soda. 

Flour ingredients:

Plain white flour - four cups. 
Self raising flour - two cups - or plain instead. 
(You can substitute other flours such as corn, barley, rye, etc. Usually I limit these to one cup or so.)
Milk - 1 Tbsp powder or half cup milk and use less water - makes the bread more cake like. 

Flavour ingredients, all optional:

Salt - a pinch or three, evenly across dough, to taste. 
Cocoa powder - roughly 1-2 Tbsp. Coat the dough to desired thickness/strength. I like dark cocoa.
Cinnamon - roughly 1/2 Tbsp. 
Cardamom - roughly 1 tsp. A light dusting only. 
Orange or lemon zest - grated - as a preservative. 1 tsp. 
Chopped nuts or seeds if you wish. 1 Tbsp. I sometimes use poppy seeds. 
Olive or vegetable oil - tsp

Yeast Step: 
Combine the yeast ingredients in a jug or bowl with plenty of expansion room. Leave in warm place. Let froth up for about 20 minutes. 
(Too long and it dies down again. Should smell very yeasty after a few minutes. I sit the jug in a warm bowl of water.)

Flour Step: 
Sift (aerate) flour ingredients into a large mixing bowl. 
When yeast mix is ready, add it to flour bowl and mix very well. 
(I sometimes use a whisk rather than spoon, or use a motorised mixer. It should be neither runny nor dry and slightly stick to the bowl - as needed add more flour or a little more water.)

If you are in a hurry, put a pot of water on stove to simmer, to steam the dough later.)

Kneading step: 
Knead the dough mix either by mixing machine with dough attachment, or by hand (I prefer the latter). 
Flour well a large board. Fold, stretch, pummel and occasionally throw the dough (don’t tear it). After 5-15 minutes it becomes velvet-like, a little like soft plasticine. 
(If by hand, keep your hands well floured and not sticky. I like disposable gloves for hygiene.)

Flavour step:
In the last few minutes of the knead, flatten the dough out, add following ingredients, and roll dough into ball. Throw and knead as required, until slightly sticky. Don’t tear it. This makes the marble swirl pattens in the bread. 
Knead a little longer if you want a more even taste. 
(If by hand, keep your hands well floured and not sticky. I like disposable gloves for hygiene. 
If you cut a little dough off at this point it should look textured, slightly foamy. )

Line bread tin with baking paper, if you have some, and oil it well: wet but not runny. The paper is useful to lift the bread out of the tin after cooking. 
If in a hurry, put dough in bread tin now, otherwise do this before putting it in the oven. 
(A roasting dish does just as well if you don’t mind flatter bread and lack a bread tin).

Proofing stage: 
FAST proof...
I like (in winter at least) to steam the dough as it speeds up the proofing. It can be a balancing act. You can also use the oven but I’ve not had good results myself. 
Bring a pot of water to steam (light boil) on the stove. Put the dough tin on the steaming pot, put a large container or lid upside down over the dough tin to catch the steam. Don’t drown the stovetop or dough tin (turn down the water).

SLOW proof alternative:, cover the dough in a bowl for 1-8 hours in a warm place, depending on how much sugar you used (more = longer. The salt and sugar slow the yeast fermentation). You can also do overnight in the fridge. 
It should be slightly moist and not dry out. 
Traditionally this was a sunny indoor place or beside the open fire. 

Cooking stage:
Preheat oven (20 mins before cooking, ideally) to about 200 Celsius. Some people like a bowl of water in the oven for moisture. 
My oven isn’t convection / fan forced. I cook bread on high (200 Celsius) for 12-15 minutes and then about 155 Celsius for 15-20 minutes. (About 30 minutes all up). 
Either leave to cool with oven door open or put bread on a cooling rack with baking paper removed.

Good baking. 
Andrew Kingdom