TAGLIATELLE WITH MEAT SAUCE MIXED


Description

Homemade noodles served with a tomato sauce and a meat mix: mixed ground, beef muscle, sausages, ham pieces and pork ribs.

The  noodles with mixed meat sauce are excellent to be enjoyed as a main dish, or better yet as a main dish. 

A rich dish that smells of tradition, these noodles with mixed meat sauce are a great alternative to pasta baked and are suitable for family meals, Sunday or for special occasions. In the family we have the custom to flavor the noodles with the sauce, then serve with the meat brought to the table on a tray in hand, so as to personally draw, cut the meat in your dish and mix it with pasta.

Tagliatelle and tagliolini are a traditional type of noodle pasta from the Emilia-Romagna and Marche regions of Italy. Individual pieces of tagliatelle are long, flat ribbons that are similar in shape to fettuccine and are typically about 6.5 to 10 mm wide.


Tagliatelle with mixed meat sauce
Difficulty: Low
Preparation: 30 minutes
Cooking time: 1 hour
Servings: 4 people
Cost: Medium


Ingredients

For the sauce
250g Minced Meat Mixed
300 g Of Beef Muscle
4 Sausages
100 g Raw Ham (diced)
8 Pork Ribs
500 ml Tomato Puree
2 Carrots
1 stalk Celery
1 Onion
to taste Extra Virgin Olive Oil
to taste Salt

For the noodles
3 Eggs
300 g Flour


Preparation

First, prepare the sauce: Chop the onion and carrots cut into small cubes or grate and chopped celery, blend and add extra virgin olive oil. Cook the mixture in a frying pan Add the meat and brown it.

Combine finally the tomato sauce, add water to cover completely the seasoning. Cook over low heat, stirring occasionally. Add salt after cooking.

Prepare the noodles: on a work surface to form a mound of flour and eggs. Mix with a fork, then work with your hands to combine all ingredients until the mixture is elastic and smooth. Let stand for a few minutes covered by the film. Roll out the dough very thin and cut the width of the noodles that you prefer.
 
Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water; once cooked (preferably al dente), drain and season with the sauce (to which the pieces of meat) will have been removed.

