Moussaka

A classic Greek recipe has three or more layers that are separately cooked before being combined for the final baking.
Change ingredients to suit taste and availability. A good blend will be light, filling but not leave you feeling bloated. 

3- 6 potato’s
3-6 long skinny eggplants (aubergines) or 1-3 large eggplants; ideally, soak for at least 24 hours (see below). 
1-2 Parsnips, carrots, sweet potato and/or quarter butternut pumpkin (optional, thin sliced)
Salt
(Olive) oil
1-2 onions chopped/thin sliced
750 g lamp or beef minced
Black pepper
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice or 1 teaspoon cinnamon (optional)
1-2 tomatoes (can be supplemented with tomato paste)
1/2 teaspoon basil, mustard and/or oregano (optional, according to preferred taste)
2-3 tablespoons chopped broad leaf parsley (add some coriander optional)
4+ tablespoons butter 
4 tablespoons plain flour (optional)
600 ml hot milk - can be made from milk powder (optional).
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg (to taste)
2 eggs (optional)

The eggplant is less bitter if soaked for at least 24 hours: slice into thin long strips then (to remove bitterness), soak in water with a little salt and vinegar for 1-3 days, store in refrigerator, optionally drain and replace liquid every day; finally, allow to drain and dry for half hour before use. 

The composed dish is layered into a pan and baked (preheated oven 180 Celsius about 45 mins) until the top layer is browned. 

BOTTOM LAYER

Slice potatoes 5-8mm, salt (& pepper), optionally sauté (fry) in olive oil. Place in baking tray.
Likewise lay strips of eggplant and other vegetables on top.

MIDDLE LAYER

Cook meat (fry in oil the onion, garlic, add meat, combining with chopped or puréed tomatoes and spices (cinnamon, allspice and black pepper). Add a few tablespoons water to moisten. Simmer 10-15 minutes to cook (meat browned and water is absorbed).

Add extra alternating layers as desired.

TOP LAYER

Béchamel sauce.
Melt butter (and flour) in a pan, add in milk (second to avoid flour turning bitter), and then fry the peels of onions and root vegetables (or shallots), onions (green), and parsley in it (few minutes). 
After cooking, add cream or eggs to thicken, salt, coarse ground black pepper, nutmeg and optionally, more parsley.
Optionally whip or purée before pouring on top. 

Moussaka is usually served warm, not piping hot; 
If cut into pieces while hot out of the oven, moussaka squares tend to slide apart and consequently the dish needs some resting time to firm up before serving. Reheating, however, does not present the same problem.
